
==  Tools for Collaboration


When working with a group on a project you need to have a way to
integrate the contributions of various team members. 

It is possible to write in software like MS Word and email copies of
the files around between collaborators. However this is a risky
practice. As revisions of the file move around the number of versions
of the file will go up. Trying to ensure that changes are not
overwritten by mistake becomes an increasing difficult task. 


........................................
QUOTE IN FRENCH HERE
........................................

The quote in French means "Good Accounts make for good
Friends" and is fitting. A business venture needs a good system to
track its money, and a project needs a good system to keep track of
the work done by its members. 

Thankfully various computer programmers over the years have faced this
problem and realizing that it was a problem built tools to try and
solve it. These tools collectively are known as "Version Control
Systems" Or "Revision Control Systems". The history of Version
Control systems dates back to the 1970's and has generated significant
progress. 

The way version control systems work is they track files and changes
to those files. So it is possible to see the history of changes to a
file and when each line was last changed and by whom. 

This allows project members to say that they all the same version of a
file, and to ensure that everyone's changes have been accounted for
+TODO Expand+ 

The current major Version Control system is called "git" and was
created by Linus Torvolds, when he was unable to find that existing
systems did not meet the needs of the team that was developing the
Linux kernel. 

GIT is a very powerful tool that has a lot of features, but most of
what is needed to work and collaborate with others can be done with a
small enough to learn pretty quickly. In addition while many git
tutorials show how to use git from a command line there are now many
very nice graphical tools to enable the use of git without having to
ever see a command line if you don't want too.

The use of git is greatly enhanced by link:http://github.com[Github] a
company that was founded in 2008 to facilitate using git to
collaborate on software projects. Since the Github has grown to become
the most popular site for building collaborations in the open source
software community.




